---
vim: wrap expandtab
vim: wrap expandtab ft=markdown
layout: docs
title: Synthesizer
lang: en
---

FreePiano can only generate MIDI signals, it needs a synthesizer to render MIDI signals to audio signals. 

<div class="note info">
<h5>FreePiano support MIDI and VSTi synthsizers</h5>
<p>Only VSTi synthsizers outputs wave signal back to freepiano, So if you use a MIDI synthizer, you can not export your song.</p>
</div>

FreePiano comes with a tiny VSTi plugin: [mdaPiano].

## Loading a VSTI plugin.
FreePiano searches VSTi plugins installed on your machine on the folowing locations:

1. VST plug-in path in registry and all its subfolders.
2. The folder where freepiano.exe is in and all its subfolders.

If FreePiano didn't find you plug-in, you can load it manually via menu `Instrument -> Browse`, and you can also drag a dll file to freepiano's main window.

If your have so much VST plugs that freepiano become very slow to show the instrument menu, you can hide all plugins by uncheck `Config -> Options -> GUI -> Show VSTi instruments`

## Show instrument UI
To show the UI of current loaded plugin, select `Instrument -> Show VST GUI`.

## Select audio output device
When a VSTi plugin is loaded, sound is outputed through FreePiano. you can change output devices in config page `Config -> Options -> Audio`. FreePiano will try to find a best device by default.

The default buffer is 10ms, it's the minimal delay in most cases, If your audio doesn't sounds correct, try to increase the buffer time.

## Use ASIO devices 
If your sound card support ASIO, you can select ASIO outputs, if not, you can install [ASIO4ALL]. ASIO provides less lags.

<div class="note info">
<p>When uses a ASIO output device, output delay in FreePiano configuration is ignored.</p>
</div>


## Output through MIDI
If you have a synthsizer only supports MIDI input, or you want to use FreePiano as a controller of another application, you can use a virtual MIDI cable. Try [MIDI Yoke].

[mdaPiano]:   http://mda.smartelectronix.com
[ASIO4ALL]:   http://www.asio4all.com
[MIDI Yoke]:  http://www.midiox.com/myoke.htm
